{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14720\viewh13100\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Author info:\
Code written by Sarah White, last revision 1/16/20,\
in association with the following paper:\
McClymont, E. L., Ford, H. L., Ho, S. L., Tindall, J. C., Haywood, A. M., Alonso-Garcia, M., Bailey, I., Berke, M. A., Littler, K., Patterson, M., Petrick, B., Peterse, F., Ravelo, A. C., Risebrobakken, B., De Schepper, S., Swann, G. E. A., Thirumalai, K., Tierney, J. E., van der Weijst, C., and White, S.: Lessons from a high CO2 world: an ocean view from ~3 million years ago, Clim. Past Discuss., https://doi.org/10.5194/cp-2019-161, in review, 2020.\
\
What this code does:\
This will calculate the mcd of an arbitrary IODP sample.\
IODP sample names need to be in a spreadsheet, with columns for:\
Site, Hole, Core, Type, Subsection, Top(cm).\
This particular code was written to work on ODP Site 806, for samples from 18H-3 and shallower.\
 \
Inputs to the code:\
1) All age model information, which is in a spreadsheet named "agemodel_forMatlab2.xlsx"\
This spreadsheet had tabs for:\
    a) Core info, which lists how long each core in each hole is;\
    b) The affine table (from Mayer et al 1993), which provides correlations between holes;\
    c) The conversion from 806B equivalent mbsf to mcd (see below for details);\
    d) The conversion from mcd to age\
2) Your sample list, as described above.  \
A test spreadsheet, \'93sample_list.xlsx\'94, has been provided along with this code and readme.\
 \
Outputs of the code:\
The mbsf, 806B equivalent mbsf, mcd, and age of each sample are appended to a table of all input sample names. \
This table is called "sample_names_raw" and is a cell matrix. \
Another table is also created, "sample_names_num," which has all the same information but formatted as numbers (and lacking column headings). \
In addition, the mbsf, 806B equivalent mbsf, mcd, and ages can all be found as columns of numbers named "mbsf," "mbsf_806Beq", "mcd\'94, and \'93ages\'94.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Details of what the code does:\
The approach is oriented around the benthic oxygen isotope stratigraphy of Karas et al 2009. This stratigraphy was built on samples from Hole B, from the coretop down to the bottom of core 11 (about 0-4 Ma).\
Because no mcd scale existed at the time, Karas et al created their own composite depth scale, \'93rev mbsf,\'94 that is referenced to Hole B. Here I use the same scale, re-named \'93mcd,\'94 and extend it to the bottom of Core 18.\
First the code calculates the mbsf of each sample, using the core info (how long each core in each hole is). \
Then it calculates what the equivalent mbsf is in Hole B. \
Then it transfers the sample onto the mcd scale (which is tied to Hole B).\
Finally, it calculates an age for the sample. Heather Ford re-assigned ages to the benthic oxygen isotope data from Karas et al 2009, using the HMM-Stack Matlab code (Lin et al 2014), which aligns to the Prob-stack (Ahn et al 2017).\
For further details, see comments alongside individual sections and lines of code.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2  \
Note there is no affine information for samples deeper than core 11 in Holes B and C (A only goes to core 9). \
Affine information is from Table 1 in Mayer et al 1993.\
For samples deeper than core 11, I assumed that the offsets between holes were the same as they were for the deepest value in the affine table. This means that mcd calculations are more uncertain. \
\
Below core 11, the conversion from 806B equivalent mbsf to mcd was structured as follows. For each subsequent core:\
1) I take the offset between 806B mbsf and mcd at the bottom of core 11 from Karas et al 2009.\
2) To that number, I add the length of the core catcher of the previous core, and the difference between the advanced length and the recovered length of the previous core. \
3) All offsets accumulate for deeper cores.\
For example, the offset between mbsf and mcd in core 11 is 6.16 m. The offset for all samples in core 12 is then 6.16 m + 0.22 m (length of core 11 core catcher) + 0.56 m (difference between advanced and recovered length of core 11) = 6.93 m. Then for core 13, the offset is 6.93 m + 0.22 (length of core 12 core catcher) + 0.49 m (difference between advanced and recovered length of core 12) = 7.64 m.\
\
Below core 11, there is no benthic oxygen isotope stratigraphy. To calculate ages for samples from cores 12H-1 through 18H-3 (~4-5.5 Ma), I constructed an age model based on a few biostratigraphic tie points. These are as follows (LO = last occurrence): \
LO Ceratolithus acutus, 806B 16H-7 40 cm, 5.04 Ma [Mayer et al 1993]\
LO Triquetrorhabdulus rugosus, 806B 17H-4 26 cm, 5.279 Ma [Takayama 1993]\
LO Discoaster quinqueramus, 806B 18H-3 100 cm, 5.59 Ma [Mayer et al 1993].\
Ages of all events taken from Raffi et al 2006, instead of from original sources.\
\
\cf0 \
References:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Ahn, S., D. Khider, L. E. Lisiecki, and C. E. Lawrence (2017), A probabilistic Pliocene Pleistocene stack of benthic \uc0\u948 18O using a profile hidden Markov model, Dynamics and Statistics of the Climate System, 2(1), doi: 10.1093/climsys/dzx002.\
Karas, C., D. N\'fcrnberg, A. K. Gupta, R. Tiedemann, K. Mohan, and T. Bickert (2009), Mid-Pliocene climate change amplified by a switch in Indonesian subsurface throughflow, Nature Geoscience, 2(6), 434-438, doi: 10.1038/ngeo520.\
Lin, L., D. Khider, L. E. Lisiecki, and C. E. Lawrence (2014), Probabilistic sequence alignment of stratigraphic records, Paleoceanography, 29(10), 976-989, doi: 10.1002/2014pa002713.\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li727\fi-728\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Mayer, Larry A.; Jansen, Eystein; Backman, Jan; Takayama, Toshiaki (1993). "Climatic cyclicity at Site 806: the GRAPE record." Proceedings of the Ocean Drilling Program, Scientific Results, Volume 130, pp. 623-639.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Raffi, I., J. Backman, E. Fornaciari, H. P\'e4like, D. Rio, L. Lourens, and F. Hilgen (2006), A review of calcareous nannofossil astrobiochronology encompassing the past 25 million years, Quaternary Science Reviews, 25(23-24), 3113-3137, doi: 10.1016/j.quascirev.2006.07.007.\
Takayama, T. (1993), Notes on Neogene calcareous nannofossil biostratigraphy of the Ontong Java Plataeu and size variations of Reticulofenestra coccoliths, Proceedings of the Ocean Drilling Program, Scientific Results, 130, 179-229.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
}